Before we start, let me ask you a question:
What's your budget for a tablet?
Take a look at this new Lenovo tablet.
It's in the 2,000-yuan price range.
For an iPad,
that wouldn't even cover the starting price.
But this one
really brings something different to the table.
So let's find out what makes
the Lenovo AI Tablet Xiaoxin Pro 13
so special.
After making so many tablets,
Lenovo's Xiaoxin line always feels
different from other Android tablets to me
especially its system.
Maybe because Lenovo started out making Windows PCs,
its tablets also have a strong Windows vibe.
Normally, when you connect a keyboard to a tablet,
you just want to type or do some light work.
Look at Apple:
they'd rather put the A18 Pro in MacBook
than give iPad a proper desktop interface.
But Lenovo?
Plug in the keyboard, and it switches to Infinite Workspace.
Once you're in,
check out
the Start bar at the bottomand
the desktop layout.
I won't say it's almost the same as Windows
it's basically identical.
When you open apps,
they're in
Windows-like windows too.
You can resize and drag them freely, just like on a PC.
You can even make them tiny.
When you're in online classes,
you can have MOOCs here,
notes here,
Weibo here,
and WeChat ready to chat.
Now that it's upgraded to 13 inches,
the keyboard is also much bigger.
Typing feels way better
than on the 11-inch model.
This keyboard also has a fun AI key.
Press it,
type what you want
like a copy for Crazy Thursday
hit the key again,
and it's done instantly.
Best of all,
it works anywhere
you can type
even in games.
And it's
not just the PC mode.
Lenovo's floating windows are also very PC-like.
Most other Android tablets
only let you run two floating windows at once.
Lenovo lets you open a bunch.
The interface might get a little messy,
but if you want to open them,
it lets you.
It also supports app clones
up to four.
Plus the original app,
that's five accounts total.
Really?
Does anyone need five accounts for one app?
This generation's system is all about polishing and adding useful features.
Now that everyone's connecting with Apple,
Lenovo can't fall behind.
Super Connect lets you share files with iOS.
Photos from your iPhone
can be sent straight to the tablet
with one tap.
Photos I take
can be dragged right into PowerPoint.
Who needs a file transfer app anymore?
It works with laptops too—even better
and easier.
You don't need a Lenovo laptop;
just download the app from Microsoft Store.
Once connected,
there's a file hub on your PC.
Pictures,
files,
copied text
all sync seamlessly.
You can even stream
tablet apps to your PC,
displaying up to five at the same time.
With this,
why install an Android emulator?
I've got real Android on my PC.
But that's not all.
It can even work as a wireless secondary display for your computer.
Once connected, it shows up in Windows settings.
You can drag apps over
and control them directly with touch.
Besides the tablet itself,
the stylus for this Xiaoxin model is also updated.
First, check the back end.
Yep, flip it around, and it works as an eraser
super intuitive.
When you write, different brushes
simulate corresponding vibrations and sounds.
The motor inside the pen
even gives the screen a slight paper-like texture.
It mimics not just pencils,
but ballpoint pens too.
Press down on any screen,
the pen vibrates,
and a small icon pops up.
Then you can draw or write directly on the screen.
Tap save,
and it becomes an image in your gallery.
It's just like using a real pen.
Back in school,
I used to click the top of my ballpoint pen nonstop
it was so satisfying.
I almost got beaten by my deskmate a few times.
This really takes me back.
This pen works even better
with Lenovo's Smart Documents.
For example,
if you come across something you don't understand,
just circle it
and draw a question mark,
and AI will pop up to explain it.
If you run into a foreign language you can't read,
circle it with the stylus, and it will translate for you.
When you find key points in an article, just highlight them,
and it automatically
saves the text to your notes.
When reviewing,
just tap the hyperlink next to it,
and it jumps straight to that section.
It feels just like
how I used to write key points on sticky notesand
stick them in my books
except now it's all digital.
Let me show you something fun.
If you highlight a point
and draw a star next to it,
a star will also show up
in your notes.
What if I draw a heart?
Yup,
it recognizes that too.
Too bad it only supports these two shapes for now.
If I were the product manager,
I'd add full AI recognition here
draw any shape, show any shape.
The Lenovo Xiaoxin Pro 13
has a 13-inch 16:10 display,
which is pretty large
for its price range.
My daily MacBook
is only 13 inches, after all.
Of course, a big screen
means nothing
if it's just a cheap 60 Hz panel.
Thankfully, Lenovo's tech isn't locked down.
This 3.5K display
has a 144 Hz refresh rate,
up to 857 nits of brightness,
and supports Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos.
Oh,
and one small detail that makes watching shows way better:
the keyboard and case are detachable.
When you're watching videos,
just remove the keyboardand
leave the case as a stand.
It doesn't get in the way at all.
Anyone who's lived in a dorm
knows how valuable desk space is
and how easily keyboards get dirty.
Now let's look at the design.
The Xiaoxin Pro 13
doesn't over complicate things.
It has a matte back with a small Lenovo logo.
The edges are squared but rounded,
so they don't feel sharp.
The corner camera is also minimal,
with a slight curve.
I heard the design is inspired
by amber dripping onto stone.
It doesn't stick out much,
so the tablet doesn't wobble when you set it down.
Battery capacity is 10,200 mAh.
And best of all
next-gen black magic:
a microSD card slot!
Under the hood,
it's powered by the Snapdragon 8s Gen 4,
a flagship-tier chip in 2025.
Not many tablets in this size and price range
can keep up.
So you don't have to worry about performance at all.
I ran some tests.
Genshin Impact at max settings:
30 minutes of running around Sumeru — average 59.9 FPS.
Honor of Kings is even smoother:
15-minute game averages 143.6 FPS.
And since it's a tablet,
thermals are well-controlled.
Heat mostly stays at the top,
so your hands never get burned while gaming.
To wrap it up:
The Xiaoxin Pro 13
is packed with student-focused features
Smart Documents,
Super Connect,
and the all-new stylus.
It's even
the world's first tablet
with on-device one-click Tianyi AI PadClaw deployment.
Lenovo took a mid-range price pointand packed
in near-flagship hardware.
They put the cost
where you can really feel it:
big screen, high refresh rate, high resolution,
and even that "alien technology" microSD slot.
Do you think
this kind of product will appeal to you more?
Alright,
that's all for today's video.
If this helped you,
please leave a like, subscribe, and hit that bell
it means a lot to me.
I'm Cherry.
See you next time. Bye!